---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Almost Final"
---

## Entering Finals

We had a nice talk this week from Riju Khatri and then we started our final presentations. 

<!--more-->

## Riju Khatri

It was really nice that we had a speaker come in who was near our age. This definitely helped in making open source development more approachable and near us undergraduate students. I mainly enjoyed how encouraging she was. I believe she had one graphic that said something along the lines of how we as open source developers should have the transition from "oh no I don't know what to do--I'm so screwed!" to "oh no I don't know what to do--but it's okay I'll figure it out". And thinking about it, I believe one can achieve this mindset by continuing to work on open source projects, failing at them, picking ourselves back up, and finally submitting actual progress. I also liked that she talked a lot about the amazing feeling you get when you're able to actually submit something to an open source project. Also, it was nice to hear that open source projects are good for resumes and preparing you for the tech world. 

## Final Presentations

People also started presenting their final projects. Everyone's projects looked really cool. However for me... I feel a bit insecure about our project now. Every group made several code contributions where each person submitted at least one solution to an issue. But for our group, we strruggled to even submit one as an entire group. Thinking back now, I realize our group would've had a much easier time if we selected a much smaller open source project. Because Blender is so big, it's so difficult to find issues and provide solutions. Hence, we had the complete opposite experience as the CAGOV group. They were also the first open source developers for their project, so they had many, MANY good first issues to choose from. Overall though, I enjoyed hearing about everyone's experiences... but it made me a bit sad about our own project. 

## So How's Blender?

For our group, though, we actually made significant progress on the issue we were working on! It first started when I figured out why we couldn't just add keyboard functions to the interface_region_search file. There was another file called interface_handlers.c that had functions mapped to different keyboard keys. What we needed to do was edit both of these files such that the pageup/pagedown keys weren't mapped to anything in interface_handlers and add the function instead to interface_region_search.cc. After I was able to realize this, I brought it up to the group and we worked on fixing the actual solution--using pageup and pagedown keys to go multiple pages. 

Camilo uploaded the first fix, but it for some reason didn't work on Mac builds. What I had to do was investigate what was going on. For some reason, on Macs, pageup and pagedown added an unrecognizable character into the search bar instead of following the function we added. Hence, I just had to make it such that on Mac builds, only ASCII letters (and nothing else) could be added to the search bar and that it would instead follow the function we added. 

Now, all we have to do is submit a diff and wait to see if it gets approved! I am hoping things go well, but we will have to see. 


