---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: The Finale"
---

## Final Class

We did it! We finally made it to the end of the semester. During our last week of classes, we finished up our presentations on our final projects and... that was pretty much it! It was fun listening to all of the other teams' experiences while also presenting our own project. 

<!--more-->

## Final Presentations

I mentioned this last week too, but it did make me a bit jealous that some other groups had an extraordinarily great time with their open source projects. I also said this in my presentation, but ultimately I think if I could take this class again, I would pick another open source project--one that wasn't as difficult to contribute to. However, I ultimately don't regret choosing Blender. It did teach me quite a few lessons when it comes to open source, and even if our contribution didn't seem like anything super significant, it took a lot of effort from our parts, and I am proud of our team. 

Also, watching the other Blender group present comforted me a bit because they also mentioned how difficult it was to contribute to the "first good issues". They tried to make documentation contributions (emphasis on "tried") and eventually ended up making contributions to the blender.org website! It's a direction that my Blender group didn't even consider. While they tried their best to search for issues in things outside of the actual software itself, my group went the stubborn path and tried to solve an actual issue we found. It reminded me that there isn't just one way to contribute to a project. Ultimately, I believe both Blender groups made meaningful contributions to the project, and I am proud of both of our teams. 

## Final Thoughts

I really enjoyed taking this class. It was quite a different class from what you'd expect in the CS department. Most CS classes are super technical, and they teach specific things about a specific topic. I liked that this class was very conceptual in its approach. While also providing technical knowledge about certain things (like GitHub stuff!) it really changed my mind on what open source can do in a more broad, philosophical way. It really helped me overcome my fear of contributing to open source projects, and it even inspired me to want to do something like starting an open source video game! I'm really thankful for this class, and I'm very happy that I was able to take it before I graduate. 

Thank you so much for the semester! 
