---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Let's Get Down to Business"
---

## Business Models

The lecture on Tuesday was one that I was looking forward to a lot. We talked a lot about what makes an open source project a good one, the benefits of using open source, and got to see many examples of works that can be done with this style of work. However, a question that was probably in the back of everyone's mind was "But how can someone sustain a big open source project? How can someone make working on open source projects a full time job?" and we were able to look into some methods with the lecture. Thinking back now, a lot of the different models we were presented with makes a lot of sense, and it made me wonder why I wasn't able to think of some of these models prior to this lecture.

<!--more-->

I felt that the most prevalent business model for open source projects was some sort of keeping part of the project open source and then having another part of the open source require some kind of payment. For example, the open core model is like this where the actual base of the project is free, but addons, customizations, and improvements are proprietary. Then, there is another business model (SaaS) which is kinda similar in that the software itself is open source, but people need to subscribe to some kind of service to actually use it. And lastly, the Dual Licensing / Selling Exceptions business model just requires some kind of payment to use the code more freely. We also have Software Consulting and Subscription Offerings, which is kinda similar, but it's just payment to help use the software rather than just paying for the software straight-up. A part of this seems a bit contradictory to what open source is, but I suppose this is the most reliable way to profit off of large open source projects. It technically does not break the rules of open source because a base part of the project is free for anyone to use, but I feel like this is a mix of open and closed source projects than a solely open source business model. 

Then, there were some more interesting models. For me, the one that I did not expect at all was advertisement partnerships. I honestly feel like this is the most ideal way of getting profit for open source projects because it allows your work to remain 100% open source. However, allowing your advertisement partnership is very dependent on the kind of project you are building. It works for something like Mozilla because it's a piece of software that a very large number of people use. Hence, it makes sense to advertise something on Mozilla. However, advertising on FreeDOS, for example, makes no sense because it has a very niche demographic. Ultimately, I believe this is the ideal way to profit from your open source project, but this is only doable with very specific kinds of open source projects, so I understand that this isn't really applicable for many kinds of software. 

Some other interseting business models were donation-based ones, bounty-based ones, and "peace-of-mind" one. Donation makes a lot of sense, and it was probably the first "business model" that I could brainstorm before this lecture. However, it's just not ideal because donations are very unpredictable and inconsistent. Bounty-based ones are also a bit unreliable because different issues might require different bounties and we need to find someone to hold these bounties. The "peace-of-mind" one was interesting to think about but it honestly makes a lot of sense. People who use these open source projects don't want to rely on projects that haven't been tested for bugs. Hence, hiring someone to guarantee the safety of a project would be a very logical thing to do, and it would probably be very cost-efficient for a company to do. 

All in all, I enjoyed this lecture a lot as it answered some questions I had about open source business!

## Project

We also continued working on our project this week. Unfortunately, it is really taking a bit of time to fully onboard onto this project. We still haven't gotten to writing down any code yet, but we are all diving into understanding how the the code works and just how Blender itself works as well. We are planning on continuing work on our issue by doing more research into understanding the structure of these files and reading/analyzing the proper files that need to be edited to fix our issue. Hopefully we are able to do that soon! 

One thing that did happen is that someone else also started work on the issue that we picked. Although I highly doubt that they ended up finishing and solving the issue entirely, it makes us feel some pressure to get to working on this issue a lot quicker because we know that other people are working on the things we're working on. I suppose that is one of the most challenging aspects of working on a highly active project like Blender.