---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Change"
---

## Change in the Film Industry

It was really cool seeing an entire podcast dedicated to talking about the way open source has impacted different things in the world. And during Tuesday's lecture, we looked at the film industry, and how the technology various film studios use has become more and more open source.

<!--more-->

If you remember from one of my previous blogs, I was actually beginning to wonder what an open source video game would look like. When I saw the title of the video, my mind immediately started wondering how an open source film would even work. Luckily, this wasn't what was actually meant by the film industry turning to open source methods. The film industry is leaning on open source when it comes to the technologies and tools that artists can use to creatively produce their work. Yes, almost every open source project we've looked at in the past has been used as a tool to achieve some kind of goal. However, I felt it was really interesting here because we could see how open source could be helpful in my "artsy" and creative industries such as film. 

The biggest topic of discussion that I thought about during this podcast was the idea of sharing your code/tools versus keeping them more proprietary. Now that we've come quite far into this semester, my mind immediately just thinks "well why not just make all of our projects more open source??" but listening to this talk made me realize that turning something open source *can be a lot of work too*. When turning a proprietary project into an open source one, we have to turn all of our personal systems into things that other people who are unfamiliar with our line of work can understand and implement into their own projects. This workload of making our code more versatile can sometimes be more than how much it'll benefit the other people who could benefit from this code. In those cases, it may just be more time efficient for everybody to just keep their own proprietary works. 

I do realize, though, that if things continue to be more and more open source, it means that we are also nearing a time when the processes for all kinds of things become more universal. Less and less people may keep their own proprietary systems--opting to use more widespread and ubiquitous jargon/methods. I feel like this is a benefit to everybody in whatever industry open source is in because it means that people will be able to work together more efficiently to push their industry's boundaries further and further. It also means that a person will be able to be more flexible in where they work as well. For example, with these film studios, a person working at Netflix would be very easily able to switch to working at Sony if both companies end up using similar open source software. All around, open source is still great!

## Changes in the Project

Last week I said that another person started working on our issue... *well they actually ended up finishing it before our team could*. It's quite the bummer, but our team shifted to working on another issue and I'm feeling a lot better about this one. The previous issue required us to have very good knowledge on Blender's Geometry Nodes, and that was actually taking us quite a bit of time. However, for our new issue, the problem itself is very intuitive and we're actually able to understand how we can reproduce the issue and possibly fix it. 

A good lesson was learned, however. When working on open source projects, try to finish issues very quickly after claiming them. Other people may come in and swoop them from you!


