---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Open Source Stories"
---

## Blender

After completing the project evaluation activity, I can definitely say that Blender is a solid choice for an open source project students can contribute to.

<!--more-->

There were a lot of good things. First off, the community is very active. I shared this in class, but while we were trying to jot down the most recent commits for this activity, somebody kept pushing new commits. We eventually had to settle with just using *one* of the recent commits, but I think this story should tell you how active the contributors in this project are. Additionally, everything is *super* well documented (at least from the bits and pieces that we saw). There are so many instructions on how to get started, what to do if you want to make non-programming contributions, how to make patches (or pull requests), and so much more. My partner and I also did not really encounter any rude people in discussions, so asking for help would likely result in a kind and speedy response. 

If there was one "bad" thing about this, it would be that many of the issues have to do with very specific things about Blender as a software. And so, just figuring out what the problem is requires you to be at some level of familiarity with the actual program. This isn't even Blender's fault, however, and there are many resources online to help you learn how to use Blender. Another "bad" thing is that they don't seem to use GitHub too much. They use git, yes, but they have their own way of displaying repositories and other GitHub-like things. This might be quite cumbersome to people who are super used to using GitHub. However, I am sure that once people learn how to use Blender's source control, things will be very easygoing. As one can see, most of these "problems" aren't really problems. They just require extra time and effort from whoever wants to contribute to Blender. 

Overall, though, I believe Blender is a great project to contribute to! I will definitely be keeping my eyes on choosing this as a project I work on. 

## Videos

Seeing the short videos that Joanna posted was quite enlightening. Up till this point, I feel like we've seen many open source projects that are cool and nice to have... but nothing that made me feel "wow this project is doing so much for society". Perhaps it was because we got to see the impact some of these open source projects have in these videos (in addition to the founders of these projects talking about the purpose for these works), but I truly felt so inspired by the things shown in these videos. A constant thought that would show up in my mind was "Wow this is open source??" because a lot of these projects felt like things that people could so easily capitalize on / monetize. 

The specific project I wanted to talk about is OpenStax, which I personally understood the purpose of and appreciated very quickly because I'm a student myself. This isn't even necessarily a software project, but I personally thought this was my favorite out of the ones chosen. At first, I wondered how something like this could be open source because something that is used to teach in academic settings should be very rigorously examined and formal. However, the more I thought about it, the more I started to agree with what the founder of OpenStax was doing. Teachers should be in control of what they get to teach their students, and if what they're teaching is incorrect, then they just shouldn't be teachers themselves. We also get the best of all worlds when we make this project open source because it allows for peer reviews among many, many instructors instead of just a select few people who are solely in charge of creating overpriced textbooks. 

I think watching these videos helped me see how open source (and even open source as a philosophy) can help solve many of Earth's most difficult problems. Being open source isn't a setback--it can be a great boon. 


