---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Launch of the Second Half"
---

## Blending Into My New Group

When we got back from our break, we were immediately placed into our new groups! I was paired with Stephanie and Camilo--two people I've worked with in the past before. Stephanie is a fellow Game Design student, and we've actually worked on one semester-long project together last year. Camilo was the person I worked with when we were making our Mozilla Firefox extension. Knowing them, I felt very satisfied with who I ended up with, and I am really looking forward to working with them! 

<!--more-->

The major thing that we got down on Tuesday was just deciding which project we'd work on. We had several options including Blender, Audacity, OBS, and LanguageTool. We had a couple of other projects we were interested in as well, but they required knowledge of things that we weren't super confident in such as Rust and Typescript, so we ended up scrapping them. When it came down to it, we all ended up agreeing on Blender because it was the one open source project that all of us had an equal amount of interest in. Audacity and LanguageTool were definitely projects that I was personally more interested in contributing to, and OBS was something that Stephanie and Camilo had written a project evaluation for together. Additionally, Blender uses Python, which is a programming language that all of us were comfortable in. 

One of the biggest challenges was and will be understanding Blender's version control. Unlike other open source projects, they do not use GitHub. Instead, they use something called Maniphest. Cloning the Blender repo and making the build of Unity on my computer took a long, long time, but it was luckily pretty straightforward. We still have yet to make actual pushes, commits, and pull requests, but with how much documentation there is for everything, we are hoping that things will be very easy to learn. All in all, there seems to be a big learning curve for getting into contributing to Blender, but we are eager to learn everything and help each other with the onboarding process.

Speaking of helping each other, we also found out another group is working on Blender as well. This worried me a bit because it made me wonder how much our groups' contributions would overlap, but while we were sharing our findings at the end of Tuesday's class, Joanna pointed out how we should help each other out whenever we run into questions or problems. For a huge project like Blender that doesn't use GitHub, I realized that having another team work with us could be a very big asset for both people. Questions are most definitely bound to pop up, and having more people to figure out these problems together will definitely be helpful.

## Tom Callaway

We also had our third speaker in the class! Tom Callaway really made me think about how much open source is being used by companies in the world. It also reminded me how many things in the open source world is still be figured out. As many of us might have guessed, being an open source evangelist doesn't mean he preaches the good word of open source to people on Sundays. Being an open source evangelist is more technological than I had thought, but something that stood out to me was that Tom Callaway mentioned how the people interviewing him for this position also didn't fully know what they wanted the job description to be. It was also interesting that Tom himself doesn't call himself an evangelist on his business cards because it is confusing. All in all, this reminded me how many things in the open source community is still being figured out.