---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Big Picture"
---

## An Introspective Week

Most of our class time this week was dedicated to discussing *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*. It was quite refreshing to be in this kind of classroom environment in a computer science class. Most computer science classes are so focused on teaching specific topics and covering tons of material, so it was super nice to just have an open discussion about technology, what makes for good software development, and the future of open source. 

<!--more-->

Much of the discussion we had made me realize how well-equipped the Game Design department at NYU made me for software development. I feel like I mention this all the time, but this conversation made it even more apparent to me that the points brought up in *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* are points that the Game Department tries to drill in us students all the time. Things like releasing your products (in my case, game builds) early, treating your users (in my case, playtesters) as co-developers, and more are heavily emphasized values taught the Game Center, so I was happy to see that these values could be expanded to normal software development as well.

Most of the discussion was pretty straightforward, but the one discussion that managed to stand out even days after our class was the discussion of whether open source developers should be held responsible if their code is used in dangerous ways. Thinking about it now I am still uncertain about my stance on this issue. However, I believe I am on the side that believes open source developers should not be held responsible for the negative effects of their software--especially if they made their products with one pure and innnocent purpose, and it's other people who are trying to use it for more sinister purposes. Just like the example that was brought in class, a "knife-maker" shouldn't be responsible if people use their knives to attack others. Another example I thought of was of violent movies/video games. If someone got inspired by violent media to go and harm other people in real life, the movie makers/game developers shouldn't be held responsible because they did not make their works with the intent of this happening. And so, I believe as long as the developers themselves didn't make a product with evil intent, no blame should be put on the developer. 

Additionally, the entire point of open source is to be *open*. Once we start making exceptions to certain projects, these exceptions will just become more common, and eventually, open source won't be open source anymore. Hence, in the spirit of open source, I actually do think that developers should still be able to make whatever they want (again, as long as it has the right intent). Plus, as technology continues to develop, if people being to use software for immoral purposes, I am sure the global computer science community will band together to create solutions against immoral users. Ultimately, I believe it is our collective responsibility (as a community) to keep immoral people in check and prevent them from being able to use technologies in corrupt ways. 

## Contributing

Unsurprisingly, the projects I want to work on most are the ones that I wrote project evaluations for: Audacity, Blender, and LanguageTool. Some other interesting ones that I am keeping an eye on, however, are OBS and Pokemon Showdown (man, I was so surprised to see this one here because I knew of this project but did not know it was open source). Mainly, I just want to work on projects that I see myself using in the future. As I listen to more speakers in this class and learn more about open source development, the more I realize I should only work on open source projects that I actually have some passion for/about. In fact, the very first rule in *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* was that you should work on something that scratches your own personal itch. Hence, I am leaning towards these options. Oh, and also, I am pretty interested in contributing to educational projects as well (such as freeCodeCamp)!

This might seem like a really minor goal, but I actually just wanted to take this class because I wanted to know what contributing to an open source project would be like. Open source development is a huge part of computer science that not many people talk about, so I believe being aware of these kinds of projects would make me a much more aware software developer. Because of this, I'm not super picky about which projects I end up working on. Yes, I'd definitely prefer to work on projects that I see myself using, but as long as I get to contribute to something in some substantial way, I'll be satisfied. 

Some challenges I see, however, are learning and becoming familiar with all of the different technologies and systems these projects use. As a student, my least favorite time of any given semester isn't finals season... or midterm season... it's the beginning of the semseter. I don't like it because I have to get accustomed to using the different tools that teachers use and understand the workflow of the class after having been used to the classes from the previous semester. Everything is new, and learning to work in new environments can be quite cumbersome. And so, I believe getting used to the different architectures, technologies, and contributing guidelines might be difficult as well. However, once I get past this initial step, I am confident that I can work hard at whatever I need to do!








