---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Progress"
---

## Midway Presentations

Most of the week was spent on allowing groups to present on their progress with their open source projects. It was very nice seeing other groups' progress and their experiences working with their own technologies. 

<!--more-->

Most groups seemed to undergo similar experiences. Downloading the software and getting it to build/run seemed to be a big hurdle for most groups. However, once that was finished, a lot of people actually ended up making contributions to projects! I was actually surprised by how much progress a lot of these people made in the last couple weeks. Most people were on their second/third pull requests, and they were making good contributions to the entire project. I was also impressed by how well everyone was communicating with the community at these open source projects. Especially for the Opia groups--I thought it was really cool that they had to attend mandatory meetings in order to contribute to Opia. 

The other Blender group also presented, and similar to us, they seemed to be struggling a lot with the way Blender was set up. For other groups, they were using Github, a platform many of us are familar with. However, for Blender, they used maniphest, something entirely different, and it was a really big hurdle that both Blender groups need to overcome. Additionally, it seems that finding a good issue to work on was another difficulty for that group as well. It was strangely quite comforting to know that both of our Blender groups were going through difficulties. One thing that the second Blender group did mention, however, was that they were also looking into doing documentation contributions, and I think our group will have to steal that idea from them. 

## What About Us?

While the other Blender group was also in a similar boat to us, seeing all of the other groups make multiple pull requests for their open source projects definitely put some pressure on our team to get things working. We're currently still working on our first issue, and though we're making good progress on it, the second Blender group's report on what the "pull-request-making" process is has us a little worried even after we fix our issue. Regardless, all we can do is keep going forward and try our best to finish as much as possible within the time we have left! 


