---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: A Reason To Open Source"
---

## Christopher Snider

Although I didn't talk about it much in my previous blog post, Tidepool was definitely a company that I was very much interested in. It was one of the projects I was most surprised about being open source--how could we make something as serious as diabetes an open source project? Hence, it was very helpful and insightful for someone like Christopher to come in and speak with us. 

<!--more-->

Right off the bat, I thought it was very cool how much Christopher dedicated his life to diabetes. He himself has diabetes, he met his spouse because of diabetes, and now he dedicates his career around diabetes-related work. Looking back on it now, it reminds me of the first rule that Eric S. Raymond described in his essay: every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch. While a project like this is obviously more than just an "itch" for someone like Christopher, I saw how much this project meant to Christopher and how it must've been possible for someone like him to push through and make this an open source project. It also reassured me that an important project like this was in very good and trustworthy hands, taking away some of the doubt I had about making this open. 

One thing that I thought a lot about during this talk was how much of an impact something like this might have on the economy. There are similar projects to Tidepoool out there, and they may actually be better in terms of number of features. However, the price gap between Tidepool and these rival companies is immense--Tidepool does not ask for a 6 figure payment. And so, even with slightly features, it makes so much more sense for companies to instead invest in a project like Tidepool. Additionally, Tidepool oozes passion and heart, having a team of members who either have diabetes themselves or are heavily invested in helping people with this disease. It makes me wonder how big of an impact open source projects will have in a capitalist economic environment such as ours. In a way, I feel like it can very easily put many companies out of business in the far, far future. 

Also, it was interesting to see how well-organized and diligent the members of Tidepool seemed to be. Whenever Christopher talked about his team, he talked about how fast-paced the team environment was and how hard they needed to work to make sure their product was on par with other companies' products. I feel like I always imagined open source developers being very relaxed when working on their projects, but this completely changed my perspective. In a way, developers need to be even *more* diligent with a project like this. 

## Bazaar

The essay we had to read was very long... and it had a lot of technical jargon that I did not fully understand... but at the end of the day... I still thought it was very much worth a read. 

I actually did love that Eric S. Raymond broke up his essay with several points on how to be a successful open source developer. One of the biggest points that I took away was to be kind to your users because they are a valuable asset, and they may even become developers one day. This is a point that I am all too familiar with. I am double majoring in Game Design, and one of the most important things that we learn in game development is that playtesting your games is super important. The players that try out your product and find bugs/suggestions to make should always be listened to. The idea of releasing builds of your games and having people play them as much as possible (even if things are buggy or incomplete) is always very emphasized. It was really nice to see that same idea appear in more regular software development like in this essay. 

Another thing I thought a lot about while reading this was whether a bazaar-like environment was really helpful in every situation. The specific environment that Eric S. Raymond may have been best with a more chaotic and free structure, but I personally feel like Eric S. Raymond just got lucky with his users and community. Like Eric stated in his essay, the pool of users that Eric had to bugtest his product were already Linux users who were quite familiar with and passionate for the technology being made. Hence, it made sense for such a community to be thriving with developments and progress. However, would this be true for a team of less qualified developers? 

One big thing I realized is that open source projects require a lot of passion. Without passion, interest in a project can very quickly die. And so, it makes sense for more corporate ways of handling a project to be used on projects that cannot afford to just disappear or cease development. A closed source project ensures that a project gets done no matter what. And so, I feel like this sorta addresses my previous concerns about how an open source project can affect the economy. It's not a question of whether the economy can keep up with the development and expansion of open source projects; it's about whether developers can.










