---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Conducting Oneself Like a True Coder"
---

## Go VS Eclipse

The benefits of having a code of conduct document are quite easy to see. Nobody wants to work in a toxic environment where collaborators are rude and prevent a healthy workflow due to their behavior. By setting strict guidelines to follow, it reminds developers of the importance of being human first and worker second. Additionally, by clearly defining what it means to be a respectful worker, it is easy to more formally call out someone for bad behavior and keep things from deescalating to a 5th grade playground argument. It serves as a sort of moral Constitution for this work environment. And basically, it creates more order in an open source environment that can very easily get convoluted and messy. 

Now if we were to look at Go's code of conduct and the Contributor Covenant, the first thing I can see is a difference in terms of tone. Firstly, Go's code of conduct is much longer than the Contributor Covenant. However, this isn't because Go's code of conduct includes new, revolutionary rules that weren't included in the Contributor Covenent. It's simply because Go goes for a more personal approach. Reading through the document makes you feel like someone is actually sitting down and talking to you. They include statements like "People are complicated. You should expect to be misunderstood and to misunderstand others," and "We do not believe that all conflict is bad; healthy debate and disagreement often yield positive results. However, it is never okay to be disrespectful." It just makes the entire document feel more authentic--like someone actually sat down and thought these guidelines through. Meanwhile, for the Contributor Covenant, it's very barebones. And while it's a quicker read, it doesn't really make me feel anything. 

Another big difference is that Go added a section called "Gopher Values" where they just list out some qualities a "Gopher" should have. I love this because it really makes every developer feel more connected to this community. You aren't just a developer--you're a *gopher*. And because you're a gopher, you should have these values instilled in you. This is very different from the approach of the original Contributor Covenant because they just slap a bunch of rules on you and say "follow them or else." Overall, I feel like Go tries their best to explain to you to respect others *while making you feel respected* while the Contributor Covenant just gives you a list of things to take note of. 

You can also see this with Eclipse's code of conduct. Their company seems to go for a much more business-y, formal approach. Hence, they look much more similar to the Contributor Covenant--they just list out standards and rules for people to follow. Because Go seems to be a more light-hearted community, they reflected this in their code of conduct. 

## Sugar

Sugar's code of conduct is much easier to read. It seems that they also placed a bigger emphasis on specific actions/values that their developers should follow. I assume this makes sense because Sugar Learning is a program made for children, and so making sure that the developers working on this project are moral people seems more important than if it were any other project. Personally, I really like this code of conduct more than the other ones because it is a very easy read and it focuses on what a code of conduct should be about--people's behaviors. Also, this code of conduct is based on is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. 

## Flutter

This is the code of conduct for [Flutter](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md#:~:text=sloc)%202.86%20KB-,Code%20of%20conduct,such%20as%20GitHub%20and%20Discord). The first thing I'll have to say is that it is very short. While the previous documents we looked at had detailed explanations for the kinds of behavior to watch out for, this document only has three lines for it. Additionally, they seem to be even more informal (not in a bad way) than Go. They include a rule about how you can yell "Embrace the yak shave!" to encourage people to "take on the larger effort necessary to perform a proper fix for a problem," and they even have a comic in the bottom talking about how normal it is for people to not know something. This document is super easy to read, and it seems to showcase the casual environment/mood in Flutter's work community. Is it just me or are Google's open source projects all very casual like this?

## Working on an Extension

So far, my team has only completed the activity and brainstormed an idea for the extension. What we want to do is make a FireFox extension that displays the number of dislikes a YouTube video has. After YouTube made the incredibly controversial decision to take down dislikes on videos, many people around the world have expressed their disapproval of this action. Hopefully what we make is easy enough to make within the span of a week and it actually helps people worldwide! We haven't actually started working on the code for this project just yet, and we probably won't have done too much work over this weekend either (I am writing this on the Friday before the weekend), so I thought it would be okay to still talk about the process of making a FireFox extension today. 

One thing I will point out though is that I'm amazed at how simple it is to make a FireFox extension! While I'm sure the more complicated extensions require a lot of work, I had a lot of fun going through the tutorials and trying out these new things on Thursday. 
