---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Just Starting Off"
---

## One Week In

Our team actually got started on our final project. In our last team meeting, we met up to finalize which open source software we'd work on for the remainder of the semester. Since then, we've all downloaded (or tried to download) the repositories and developer's build of Blender. We also picked out several issues for us to try tackling together.

<!--more-->

During our last meeting, we officially introduced ourselves to the developer chat for Blender. We also met with the other Blender group to briefly go over how we were going to tackle things. We basically just discussed how we were going to use the GitHub mirror repo that Blender has and how we were going to fork that in order to collaborate with other members within our own teams. I mentioned this in my blog post last week, but it was truly great to see us share our findings and insights to help each other get to where we needed to be! 

We finally decided on an issue to tackle as a team, and it didn't seem super difficult. One thing, however, is that Blender is a super big project. It requires a lot of research to figure out which files do what and what the issue even is. Luckily, there are many resources for Blender--whether they be YouTube tutorial videos or documentation. Hence, we believe that with a little bit of research we will be able to get on board with the project as quick as possible. 

## Midterm

We also took a "midterm" on Tuesday. I put "midterm" in quotes because even though it was an exam testing our knowledge and experiences in this class, it was actually a really pleasant experience. We weren't grilled with technical questions on very specific things mentioned in slides. Instead, it made us ponder on some of the higher level thinking that we had to do during some of our class discussions. It was really nice to reflect on a class like this. 

Something interesting that happened to me while working on my midterm submission was that I started wondering if it would be possible to make an open source video game. I'm double majoring in both CS and Game Design. I thought it would be pretty cool if I could take the open source concept/approach from this class and try applying it to making a game. I feel like it would lead to some very interesting outcomes, and now I really want to try something like this in the future! 