---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: An Extended Look at Browser Extensions"
---

## Group Work

I thought our group worked pretty well! We were just a group of two people, but we managed to get everything that we wanted to get done done. We also knew what the remaining tasks were and took initiative to finish them on time. 

<!--more-->

Everything went pretty smoothly since my last blog post. We ultimately got our browser extension to work, and we set up our GitHub repo to make it an actual open source project. Camilo started work on the Javascript file--namely, hiding the comments and suggested videos. Using Camilo's Javascript code as a lead, I also added features that hid the YouTube logo, the suggested videos on the homepage, and the side bar that allows you to navigate to your subscriptions, liked videos, history, etc. In terms of making our project an open source project, I added in the CONTRIBUTING.md and Code of Conduct. Camilo also added in some finishing touches right before our presentation--the most important of which was hiding the suggested videos that show up when a video ends. 

## Things Learned

This might seem very obvious, but the biggest thing I learned was how to make a browser extension. I did not know it was something that I could potentially work on, but the tutorials that Joanna posted and this experience of actually making one made me realize how simple it is to get started. One other thing I learned was some simple Javascript. I had very little experience with web development prior to this class, but working on this extension helped me get a better sense of how some of it actually works. 

In terms of open source, I got to get into the nitty-gritty of how some open source projects work--specifically, things like how a lot of open source projects require pull requests when you want to make changes and how they use the issues tab to list out current problems. Actually adding in the README, CONTRIBUTING, CODE_OF_CONDUCT, and LICENSE files helped me truly understand the purpose of all of thesee things. 

## Other Extensions
I thought everybody's extensions were really fun to learn about and play around with! I first have to shout out Focusify because it's so similar to ours (they hide Instagram content while we hide YouTube content). However, my favorite was definitely Slap-A-Fetti. It was just so chaotic, and if they didn't tell us that the actual webpage wasn't supposed to move around as well, I genuinely would have thought that it was an actual feature. It fits very well with their vibe, and I ended up enjoying it a lot! Some other features I enjoyed were Study Timer (it seems very practical) and Less Ugly Brightspace (I liked the darker color scheme and their presentation was definitely one of the most memorable). I think it's very cool how so many of our extensions had to do with cutting out unnecessary content and helping us focus better as students. 

Overall, I thought this was a very cool project to work on! I loved that Joanna didn't emphasize making a good and sophisticated browser extension, but rather let us experiment with the tools we were given and get used to setting up open source projects. It was very fun! 