---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

<h1> Week 1: Being Open About Open Source </h1>

<h2> Open Source </h2>

<p>The idea of open source is quite intriguing to me because I've never had any experience with it. To me, it's always been a mysterious side of software development that I knew was helpful to a lot of people. However, because I didn't really know how it worked, I just always avoided it. I came to this class hoping to demistify it and to work on some open source projects myself! </p>

<p>After our first couple of lessons, the word that comes up when I think about open source is "dangerous". Letting *anybody* look through and write your code? It seems very risky. What if they steal your code for their own products? What if they try to sabotage your product? What if people judge your for the code that you wrote? I know that obviously there are rules set in place so that random people can't just completely destroy entire products that people are working on, but being this open with the public would personally make feel a bit uneasy if I was the developer. From a CS student's perspective, however, I completely love this! It means I can learn how some products are made and get some hands on experience with software development without having to write all of the code myself! </p>

<p>But if I were to look at things from a more objective viewpoint (and not just think about my own personal feelings), I can definitely see the pros and cons of both open and closed development. Open development encourages collaboration, which is valuable because more heads thinking about a solution is better than just one. It also keeps the programmers in check. While you could technically try to destroy the program by writing horrendous code, there are likely more eyes keeping watch of the code than if it was private, meaning mistakes could very quickly be spotted. And lastly, it just wastes less time for programmers around the world. I believe the story of *Tesla* was brought up in class and how they let their programs be open source because it just saves the time of everyone else in the industry who also need these kinds of softwares. Some cons could be that the way your code goes depends very heavily on the community working on your product. If good programmers work on your product, you'll end up with a great product. But what if messy programmers get their hands on your project? Also, we had many discussions in class about this as well, but thinking about how money can play a role in distributing your product can be an issue. I believe we'll dive deeper into how companies are able to commercialize their open source products later on in the semester, but for now, I see it as a rather annoying hurdle to have to deal with when in charge of an open source project. And lastly, a fascinating point brought up on Thursday was how anybody contributing to a criminal or illegal product could be held liable if the product is used in a bad way. </p>

<p>The pros and cons of using closed source products would be the completely opposite. You can keep your code more private, which makes it easier to sell as a product. Additionally, only people in your team will be allowed to touch your code, making it easier to ensure that your product is being made the way you want it to. It may also be advantageous if you want to compete with another company making a similar product. You could try to create a better product than your rival company and ultimately put them out of business by not sharing your code. </p>

<p>Ultimately though I can now see clearly how open and closed source development are just two different philosophies with making your code. Do you want to trust the public community and help everyone out? Or do you not want the public to get to your precious baby and have full authorship/ownership over it? It almost feels like a public school vs home school kinda debate, and I can't really blame one company for going one way or the other. </p>

<h2>Projects</h2>

<p>I think the most obvious open source project I've used in my life is Wikipedia. It's just useful whenever you have to search up literally *anything*. </p>

<p>Another open source project that I use often is Blender. It's a 3D modeling program, and as a Game Design major, I often use it whenever I need to create characters or props for my 3D games. The fact that it was always free always baffled me because it is such an amazing product, but I am now able to see how that is possible--it's open source! </p>

<p>Audacity is another open source software that I often use for my games--especially when it comes to music/sound editing. This is also free, and while it is not as polished as Blender, it's a great basic program for just clipping audio clips, adding sound effects, and more! </p>

<p>And lastly, I'm gonna have to go with Java. Java is the programming language that I am most comfortable with out of everything, and being that I always use it whenever I can, it's amazing how this is open source! </p>
