---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Lots of Learning"
---

## Let's Git It!

There was some kind of error with saving this markdown file before, so I had to rewrite my blog post from memory. If some parts feel a bit inconsistent or rushed, that's probably why!

Our first lecture last week involved us learning the basics of Git. Luckily, I am not completely inexperienced when it comes to it--I've been using it for a while now. I am a double major Game Design student, and for that major, Git is our main way of collaborating with other members and programmers. However, that was all very surface-level knowledge. I  knew how to do basic committing, adding, and pushing, but anything beyond that I did not know. And actually I didn't really have a reason to know anything beyond that because it was sufficient enough for all of the projects that I've worked on. 

<!--more-->

And so, Tuesdays class was very helpful as it got me to look a bit under the cover and see what I was really doing on Git. Seeing the diagram in the slides and on the board helped me visualize what happens with staging and adding files. It also helped me get a better grasp on branching and forking (I literally had no idea what forking was prior to this lecture). I also appreciated the little tips that Joanna gave out throughout the lecture--things like "don't just do 'git add .'" and "always pull before pushing". Merge conflicts are scary, so it was helpful to kinda go into this stuff on Tuesday. 

I'm glad that Joanna was willing to go over this stuff on Tuesday! It waas very much appreciated. 

## Jim Hall

On Thursday, Jim Hall came in to give a talk. I was really impressed with his passion for open source and FreeDOS, and I'm really glad we got a chance to meet him! The parts of his talk that were most interesting were the parts where he talked about working on FreeDOS back in the 1990s. He described things like having to use emailing lists as their main form of communication and needing to upload entire zipped files to share their progress on the project. It makes me realize how easy we have it now--things like Slack and GitHub make things so accessible. Jim Hall and his team had to work without the resources we have now, and I think it shows just how diligent and driven he was to get this project started. 

Other things that also stood out were the different pieces of advice he'd throw out. For example, he talked about how communication is super important to make sure a project does not fail. This is coming from a person whose open source's main method of communication was emailing lists, so I feel like it only adds weight to his piece of advice. Another thing was that he recommended starting a website for your open source project--even if it's ugly. While he was specifically talking about making websites, I feel like this kind of ideaology applies to many other kinds of projects. I'm the kind of person who only really dives into work if I know for certain that I can do a good job on it. However, what Jim Hall said makes me more eager to dive into new and uncertain things. 

Overrall though, I greatly appreciated having Jim Hall come in!

## YouTubeEX

So unfortunately, our team found displaying the YouTube dislike button to be quite challenging. Hence, we needed to shift gears and come up with something new. Luckily, Camilo was able to think of a new YouTube idea--getting rid of suggested videos. It seemed simple enough to do within the time we had left, so that's what we are doing now! 